---
title: Setting Intentions
layout: post
description: My departure from Watsi, and what's next.
author: Jesse
tags:
- intent
- watsi
---

3 years ago I was introduced to a small group of Peace Corps volunteers that
were working on a brilliant idea. I was immediately hooked. Like all great ideas
it was simple: use crowdfunding to connect donors with patients in need of low
cost, high impact health care. Crowdfunding was all the rage, yet no one had
taken the leap to match it up with health care like Chase Adam, the passionate
leader of what would become [Watsi](https://watsi.org).

I came on board as the technical co-founder, the one responsible for building
out the actual platform. Back then Watsi was just a passion project; Google
Hangouts once a week, emails and phone calls about our dream for what Watsi
would become, etc. We decided we'd be *successful* if we could fund 10
treatments. After our friends and family beta, where we raised about half of
what was needed for the 3 patients on the site, Chase posted to
[Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=4424081) and we blew up.
The reception was amazing, and the rush was something I had never felt before.
It wasn't the validation of what I had built, but that I was part of something
that connected people in a way that could only be Good (yes, with a capital G.)

> The only possible outcome of Watsi is Good.

A few months later we caught the eye of Paul Graham and everything changed.
We had wanted to focus on Watsi full time but finding the funds proved
difficult. pg/[Y Combinator](http://ycombinator.com/watsi.html) gave us the
funding, time, advice, and chance to focus we needed to see where Watsi could
go.

And so began the rollercoaster. Watsi is the hardest thing I've done so far.
I set out to find a *work-life* balance when I left my full-time job back in the
summer of 2009, and once Watsi took off there was no looking back. There's not
much room for the *life* part of the work-life balance as the founder of a
startup, which should have been obvious to me, but wasn't.

Over time I realized that the setting of intention was paramount to how I
wanted to live. While I loved all the things about Watsi, deep down I knew that
I had not intended to do it, and that that was contradictory to how I wanted to
live. I rode the rollercoaster until May 6, 2014, when I decided it was time
for me to part ways.

I am supremely lucky to have been a part of Watsi. Chase, Grace and the rest of
the team are friends, first and foremost, and ultimately the right people to be
leading the charge for a new model of health care. They are the most driven and
altrustic people I've ever met, and they pushed me to develop parts of myself
I didn't know I could. I'm proud of the work we did and excited for what they
will deliver to the world.

It's time for me to set my intentions again. Fortunately I had some travel
planned, which will give me time and perspective on what I might want to do
next. I'm excited for what lies ahead. I'll always be supportive of Watsi,
and I encourage you to [do the same](https://watsi.org/monthly).

